Like any other web application, there will be mainly two major components of this project. 
One is the backend and another is the front-end. 

Technologies to be used to implement backend:
Our application will follow the SOA i.e. Service Oriented Architecture which is the current state-of-the-art technology and it
fits best with our interest as we will have a lot of services to be implemented.
We will implement the services following the REST API protocol. It stands for Representational State Transfer and its HTTP 
protocol. Currently it is the best approach through which software can talk to each other. As we want the applications to be
implemented in a way where other platforms (like mobile) can use our services, we have to use REST API. Now, in .NET stack, there
are basically two ways to implement REST API. One is WCF (Windows Communication Foundation) and the other one is ASP.NET Web API 2.
Among these two Microsoft already declared that they will not continue with the WCF rather ASP.NET Web API and latter one is 
created solely based on the HTTP protocol. So for implementing back-end REST API services, we will use ASP.NET Web API 2.
Another major reasons include – it has a good support for websocket programming that we need to implement our messaging system,
it has great support for integrating ORM (Object Relational Mapping) tool like Entity Framework or nHibernate. We definitely need a
strong ORM tools that can ease our work while working with the database. There are lots of entity frameworks available on .NET
stack, but we will definitely go with the Entity Framework as it has some automation tool i.e. it generates the code automatically
for us. For build and deployment tool we will use Octopus Deploy, an automated software development and release management server
and it is designed to simplify deployment of ASP.NET applications, Windows Services and databases.

Technologies to be used to implement Front-end:
As our project will be a web application, there will be a front-end part though which users will interact. Now to implement this
part, the best suited technology we found is ASP.NET MVC. We have also considered other choices like AngularJS but we preferred to
stick with ASP.NET MVC as it resides on the .NET stack and it communicates with services pretty well. It provides great razor 
syntax using which we can bind the data coming from the services with HTML very effectively. It also also great support for custom
javascript integration. As it follows the MVC pattern this will help us to organize and scale our re-usable code.

IDE: Visual Studio 2015 (no other choice)

Dependency Management: NuGet

Version Control: Git and GitHub
